good afternoon everybody thank you for
joining us
when i asked you to go into lockdown
exactly a year ago it seemed
incredible that in the 21st century this
was the only way to fight
a new respiratory disease to stay at
home
to avoid human contact to shun so many
of the patterns of behavior
that are most natural and obvious to all
of us
but we did it together to protect the
nhs
to save lives and for the entire british
people it's been an epic of endurance
and
privation of children's birthday parties
cancelled
of weddings postponed the family
gatherings of all kinds simply deleted
from the diary and worst of all
in that time we've suffered so many
losses
and for so many people our grief has
been made
more acute because we've not been able
to see our loved ones
in their final days to hold their hands
or even to mourn them together
and at the right moment we will come
together as a country to build a fitting
and a permanent memorial
to the loved ones we've lost and to
commemorate this whole period
for month after month our collective
fight against coronavirus was like
fighting in the dark against a
callous and invisible enemy
until science helped us to turn
the lights on and to gain the upper hand
and i want to renew my thanks to
everyone responsible
for the astounding vaccine rollout which
has enabled us to protect
more than 28 million people across the
whole of the united kingdom
with a first jab and administer more
than 30 million
doses in total and i want to thank
everybody
for their courage your courage
discipline
and patience when people come to
describe this epidemic to future
generations
we'll tell the story of the heroes of
the nhs and social care
the pharmacist teachers armed service
personnel shop workers
transport workers the police and so many
others
but in the end this was unlike any other
struggle
in my lifetime in that our entire
population
has been engaged and it's thanks to all
of you
therefore that we can continue on our
road map to freedom
we will meet our targets offering a
first dose to everyone over 50 by the
middle of next month
as well as those under 50 who are
clinically vulnerable
and offering a first dose of vaccine to
every adult
by the end of july and
cautiously but irreversibly step by step
jab by jab this country is on the path
to reclaiming our freedoms thank you
very much and i'm now
going to go to chris who's going to do
the slides
thank you prime minister first slide
please
the first slide uh is i've just shown
from september of last year because the
data from this time last year as
everyone will remember we just didn't
have the testing capacity to be
comparable to what we have
uh today and as you can see
the rates of numbers of people testing
positive for covid
in the uk uh is continuing to fall
uh but this is flattening off to some
extent over the last
uh week and this is expected uh at this
point
of the curve uh in terms of it's going
down but going down more slowly
and we have always expected there to be
some upward pressure
as people went back to school and some
unlocking happened and this is
expected as part of the process next
slide please
fortunately the number of people in
hospital with kovid
and this shows data right back to april
of
last year has come right down
and is continuing to fall rapidly
through a combination
of everyone's efforts on the lockdown
which is driving the significant
reduction in cases
and the vaccine rollout which is
particularly accelerating this
in people who are in the older age
groups
and those of pre-existing health
conditions next slide please
and if we look at the number of deaths
registered
weekly in the uk and these are the
official deaths
registered again going back to this time
last year you can see the very rapid
spike up that we had this time from this
time last year
then really right down to normal normal
rates
very close to normal rates over the
summer but then the first part
of the second wave and then when we got
the new variant
the second part of the second wave which
is now fortunately again
due to a combination of everyone's work
on lockdown
which is bringing the rates right down
and vaccines which are protecting the
most vulnerable
these are falling and falling rapidly
and as you can see they're falling much
more rapidly
now than the rates of rate of decline of
the number of cases
next slide please i think as we are at
this point this sort of anniversary when
lockdown started
i just wanted to show one additional
slide to put this in context
uh some people sometimes say well
did this make how much of a big
difference does this make to overall
mortality what you have is the dotted
line here shows the average number of
deaths the five year average
and you can see very clearly the very
substantial
spike we had in mortality at the first
wave
a rather lower one in the first bit of
the second wave and then when the new
variant
started a second very substantial spike
on top of
the background rate of people dying
naturally and if and
the ons data that came out today uh this
morning
said that there had been overall since
the beginning of the
epidemic in the uk 147
000 179 people
this is uh to their most their most
recent data to the end
of the 12th of march who have sadly died
from covid uh more will do so but we are
now
on the downward slope and then when they
looked at the
excess deaths the number of people who
died in addition to
the number of people who would have died
normally it was a
hundred and eleven thousand six hundred
and forty one and i think everybody
watching and listening to this will
mourn every single one of those deaths
next slide please but the rates
of mortality are fortunately now falling
uh rapidly
and that is due to a combination of the
lockdown as i said and this is the other
thing which the prime minister talked
about the steady increase now
in the number of people who are
vaccinated and we now have a have
a situation where the great majority of
people over 65
have now had their first vaccine and
some people in the oldest groups
are now receiving their second vaccine
or people who are frontline healthcare
workers
so the vaccine program continues to be
very important for making sure that as
new surges happen which they are likely
to at some point
they will meet a wall of vaccinated
people which will help to
significantly reduce the ratio of people
who catch
the disease to the number of people who
die from it
thank you very much thanks very much
chris patrick anything to add thank you
very much let's go to sheila from
edinburgh
how is the government planning to stop
the spread of the third wave from
continental europe
into the uk are there plans for lateral
flow tests for laundry drivers entering
the country
and hotel quarantine for everyone else
coming to the uk
from anywhere abroad uh
sheila thank you very much yes indeed we
must be very wary of the the potential
for a third wave
as as chris has just said uh sadly uh
uh we're seeing on the on the european
continent we are seeing
uh distinct uh signs of a of a third
wave
and uh they're taking steps to uh
to uh to abate that to deal with that
and
um we in the in the uk have very tough
measures at our borders already
uh in including uh mandatory tests for
anybody who
who comes here you have to get a do a
passenger locator form you get
fined two thousand pounds if you fail to
fill one in
and then when you uh when you get home
from wherever you have come from
uh you have to uh get a test on
day two as well as day eight and again
you can be very heavily fined if you
if you fail to comply and you fail to
quarantine at home
as for people coming from the uh the 35
red list countries there are indeed
uh sheila there are indeed
measures to take them directly from
their point of arrival in the uk
uh to hotel quarantine where they stay
for 10 days
as well and again have to have to do uh
two tests but as for your points about
about lorry drivers and hotel quarantine
for absolutely
everybody we keep i want to be i want to
be clear with the
the public we keep all these measures
under review uh insofar as it's
necessary
to take extra measures to protect uh
this country against
uh new variants variants of concern of
course we're going to do that
and i think we'll go on to tim from
northampton
and tim from northampton asks it's been
reported that studies have found
vaccine antibodies to last only a few
months does that mean that vulnerable
groups vaccinated first
will need to be prioritized for a second
vaccination cycle
before young people have even had their
their first that is an extremely good
question but i think it's probably a
question for
clinicians rather than and scientists
rather than for me so i'm going to go to
to to chris first of all who would like
to go
patrick um i think if you look at the um
the antibody response to natural
infection which is probably the best
data we've got in terms of
long-term effects you see them really
lasting pretty well out to six months we
don't know
a long time beyond that and i think the
expectation is that
antibodies to vaccines will also last um
for a reasonable
period we don't know exactly how long
because obviously people haven't been
vaccinated for a very long period so you
may see some slight decline
but on the whole the va the antibody
levels are holding up
the second thing to say is that the
response to a vaccine
is only part the antibody response there
are other parts of the immune system
t cells and memory cells and other
things are an important part of the
overall response
and so i don't think there's any
indication yet that vaccine effects are
waving
that said there will be a need to
think about boosted jabs for vaccines in
the autumn i suspect particularly
thinking about getting high level of
immunity to cover things
over the winter i think the
the additional thing just to add is that
the second reason for
having to do a second vaccine is if we
got a variant that
had a relative escape from uh current
vaccines
and that would be another reason why we
might need to do revaccination
thanks very much uh both thanks tim
laura koonsburg bbc
thank you prime minister the country's
been through so much in the last 12
months and so many people today are
grappling with everything that's
happened um professor whittie sir
patrick
and you prime minister can i ask if
there's one thing you wish you'd done
differently in the last year what would
it be
well uh i i kind of had a feeling you
were going to ask something like that
uh laura and you're absolutely right and
i think in in retrospect there are
there are probably many things that uh
we wish
that we'd known and many things that we
wished that
we'd done differently at the time in in
retrospect
because we were fighting a novel uh
disease under very
uh different circumstances i think than
any uh previous government had
imagined i i think that the point i've
made to you before the thing that
perhaps the single biggest
thing uh that we uh
the single biggest false assumption uh
that we made it
was about the potential for asymptomatic
transmission and
and that did govern a lot of policy uh
in the early
days or that misunderstanding about the
reality of asymptomatic transmission
certainly
uh led to uh uh real problems that uh
uh we we then uh really had to work very
very hard to to to make up grand but uh
you know we've been learning the the
whole time and we're continuing to learn
i mean i just wish we knew then what we
know now i mean we've learned an
enormous amount about this virus about
how it transmits about um
asymptomatic transmission about how it
spreads in different environments about
how to treat it there's a whole
host of things that that would have been
nice to know then the one thing that i
think
would have been really important earlier
on is to have much better data on what
was happening
and that would have required testing to
be up and ready immediately and it would
have required
the ability to get that information into
a source
and to be able to see it we can monitor
the epidemic really really well now
and understand when changes are taking
place we simply didn't have that at the
beginning and
and it was very difficult to know the
speed at which things were moving
and therefore make decisions based on
the um
real-time data which we can do now and
that would have made a big difference i
think
i think the thing i'd add to that i mean
i completely agree obviously with both
of those
ones uh is that um our understanding not
only of
uh the speed of things in the uk uh was
based on the fact we didn't have really
sufficient data and it wasn't until
people started
getting into hospital and dying we had a
we had a really better fix on how
fast things were moving so that was very
important
but an earlier stage we had a
much less of an understanding about how
widespread the virus was in europe for
example the same reason actually because
of the lack of testing in europe as well
as in the uk
and so the in retrospect we now know
the amounts of importation there were
from spain from france and from bits of
italy that didn't obviously have a
problem
for example but at the time we didn't
have that information and that would
almost certainly have led to
uh slightly different approaches to how
we how we did things
thanks laura uh dan hewitt itv
thank you prime minister and you talked
then about learning lessons reflecting
today
do you wish you had locked down the
country much sooner both in the spring
last year
and then again in the autumn and a
second if i may um
yesterday itv news uncovered the most
shocking and appalling housing
conditions in croydon which experts have
said
are the worst they have ever seen it
poses serious questions for the landlord
croydon council
but we know just under half a million
people in england are living in
substandard
social housing what have you done as
prime minister to help people living in
poor
social housing conditions well
dan first of all on on your question
about
the timing of the decisions that we uh
that we took
these are very very hard decisions and
and there are no uh good
outcomes uh either way as as as i think
uh all our viewers understand
all these consequences are very very
tough uh
for people and uh uh all i can say is we
took all the decisions
uh with the uh the interests of the of
the british people foremost in our
hearts and
uh in in an effort to protect uh the
public and to prevent death and
suffering that was what we were
trying to do at all stages uh though
doubtless
there will be a moment to properly uh to
review uh to learn lessons
and to make sure that we you know we
learn those lessons down
for future uh pandemics of a kind that
i'm sure that there will be and
uh on on croydon uh which uh i believe
is currently
uh controlled by uh the labour party
uh we are uh that i
remember when i was mayor of that of
croydon
and everywhere else in london uh
building
huge quantities of uh of social housing
and encouraging
uh development of uh uh of all kinds
in croydon and i i greatly regret the
uh the story and the facts that you've
uncovered uh just now
uh what we've got to do as a as a
country is
uh work together uh to build that better
from the pandemic
and particularly to give uh people the
opportunity not just to
uh to rent uh their homes uh written
their social home and what the perhaps i
think the biggest thing we've done
is increase the local uh housing
allowance
uh to uh uh right the way up
uh the uh the the house the the local
rental average
uh so we put much more money into the
pockets of those who need to rent
uh locally uh to to support those on the
on the lowest income that's probably one
of the most important things we've done
to support
social housing but in the end you've got
to build
more homes and that is the ambition of
this
of this government we want to build 300
000 homes
a year and and if you look at our
planning reforms everything that we're
doing
uh to drive that forward uh that's what
we can do croydon as it happens
uh offers fantastic opportunities uh for
for more development as as i'm sure you
know as i
as i well remember and uh it would be
a great thing if the uh if the current
uh
mayor of london uh without putting too
fine a point on it
uh dan uh addressed the issue uh himself
and that's what
uh i would like to see uh let's go to
beth rigby of sky news thank you prime
minister
finally after a very long and hard year
the end is now
in sight but no one can doubt the huge
scar
kovid is going to leave on our economy
on public health and on the lives of all
our children
and to each of you what do you think the
main
social health and economic challenges
will be
and will we be grappling with the legacy
of
covid in the past year for the rest of
our lives
thank you beth i certainly think that
this is something that we will all
remember and
be dealing with in different ways for
probably for certainly in my case for as
long as uh
as i live it's been an extraordinary uh
moment in our in our in our history in a
deeply
difficult and and distressing period uh
if i look at the
uh the problems that uh we face at the
moment in addition to the
the the the continuing healthcare uh
threat that we face
you know we must be realistic there is
uh another wave uh building in
in european continent uh amongst our
friends
uh we will see it wash on to our shores
i i i have no doubt
the the extent to which it affects us
will depend as
as chris was saying on the strength of
the fortifications
we've now built against it by the by the
vaccine program
uh that's that's that's one problem
we've still got to deal with but
the legacy issue i think for me uh
leaving aside all the all the other
backlogs is is is education
and it's the loss of of learning
for so many uh children and young people
that's the thing we've got to focus on
now as a as a society
and that and that i think is an
opportunity to make amends
uh because you know there's going to be
uh this year a group of
of kids going from primary to secondary
school there'll be uh perhaps 90
000 it's calculated uh who will uh be
behind in their basic literacy
uh unable properly to read all right
nine thousand more
as a result of of covid a huge
between three and five months of
education has been
lost and of course the the detriment uh
falls the hardest on the uh
the kids who've needed attention the
most and and who have
uh been unable to who haven't been
provided properly with uh the time and
the
uh and the support that they need so
that's why we've been working so hard as
a government to make up that gap uh with
everything that we
uh we've done uh through the uh through
the holiday support through
uh investment in in the catch-up funds
uh the
the 1.7 billion uh that we've put in uh
everything we've done to roll out
laptops across the
as many kids as as as we could uh and
that's why
uh in addition to the work that gavin
williamson is doing we
as a sir kevin collins uh is the
education recovery uh commissioner who
is leading that work of recovery and
what sir kevin and his team are going to
be focusing on is not just
uh remediating the damage repairing uh
the damage plugging the gaps
uh but i think there's there's a chance
to to learn from the
the pandemic and the and all the ways in
which actually some
teachers and some schools have done
brilliantly at uh discovering how you
can teach
uh through zoom discovering ways in
which we can actually
uh teach better uh in some ways through
the technology that we've been using
but also maximizing our use of of
of tutoring as well so that uh kids who
have fallen behind and kids with
potential
get one to one tutoring uh where we
think
that can make a difference and you know
i'm not going to pretend that everything
is going to work
first time and you know we've been
through a long period where we know
we've got used to things not working
uh first time but we're going to
persevere and i think that
we will start to make a big impact on on
those kids lives
it's been an absolutely
unimaginable year for for school
children for
university students for everybody in in
education
they've put up with incredible
privations
uh in order to to help us the whole
country get through
and our our future as a country depends
on
us now repaying that generation making
sure
they get the education they need so
that's that's the stuff for me that's
the
the biggest priority i mean just
narrowly on the health side um covet
itself
i anticipate being with us for the
foreseeable future we'll have to
deal with it in some form or another now
science has
extraordinarily responded to this if you
think where we were a year ago
vaccines drugs diagnostics and
understanding of the virus we will be
able to bring it down to manageable
levels but it's not going away so we
will have covid
for the indefinite future second thing
uh
which is a health issue from covered and
we've said this right from the beginning
this is one of the things we've been
very concerned about right from the
beginning
collectively is that the impact on other
aspects of the health service will have
some delayed effect there will be people
for example who probably delayed having
screening and i would really encourage
people
to take that up for things like cervical
cancer breast cancer
which have run the risk of people having
a delayed diagnosis the same will be
true for people who have not gone for
routine or elective care
they normally was that's a medium term
issue but potentially could be a
significant one if we are not
absolutely alive to it and the third one
which again
we recognize fully from the beginning
and one of the things that's made so
many of the decisions very difficult
is much of what's happened in lockdown
has the risk of making people who are on
the board lines of deprivation
in more difficult economic and other
circumstances and we all know that has a
massive impact on long-term health
implications so that and that could have
really quite a long term
implications again if we don't take it
seriously i suppose the final point i'd
make
is that kovid has shown a light into
areas
of healthcare the people who are being
affected by
kovid now are the same families the same
places
the same people who are affected by so
many other diseases and i think we
really need to look at this very
seriously
because these you know the the same
people will be
suffering from the diseases of smoking
of other diseases of deprivation and so
on
we've really got i think to take this
very seriously as a as a country and as
a community
i think i mean clearly today is a day to
think about all the people who've died
this year
as a result of this terrible virus but
also the people who've suffered both
physical
and mental health and all of the
consequences that come with that
and the societal effects and um
in september i asked the british academy
to get their academics together to try
and
address the question what might the
societal impact long-term societal
impacts of kovid be
and they've got 200 of the brightest and
best of
of of the fellows of the british academy
and a report was published today
trying to give an evidence base for what
that might look like and
there are a number of things in there
ranging from the topics that have been
covered from education to inequality to
health
that i think are highlighted and have
profound implications for how
policy might evolve but what's important
is that there's an evidence base now to
work on
and that report i think will be useful
for policy makers going forward
thank you uh thanks both and thanks beth
ben rightly smith telegraph
thank you a question for the prime
minister and also the government
scientists
she actually picks up on chris whitley's
comments there we're a year into this
pandemic
should the uk government's policy
objective now be to eradicate
covid or simply bring down cases to the
lowest possible
levels well
ben i think it's the second uh in in the
sense that i i'm not sure listening to
the scientists intently as i have for
many many months i'm not sure that that
eradication
uh makes sense in a in a globalized uh
uh economy for for one country alone
plainly as a
an objective for humanity it's it's it's
right and and we should we should aim
for it but
uh that's that's that's my uh that's my
that's my view but um but i
had to chris and patrick i mean i i i
regret i regret to say
that i think the chances of eradicating
this disease which means getting rid of
it absolutely everywhere
are as close to zero as makes no
difference we've only achieved
eradication of one disease which is
smallpox
with a phenomenally effective vaccine
over a very
a very long period of time literally
hundreds of years
so um and others have come close but
it's very difficult in terms of
eliminating from the uk
this is a disease which is got most
people
who have it have mild symptoms or in
some cases no symptoms who can then
transmit it that makes it very difficult
to find
we have good vaccines very good vaccines
but not 100 effective vaccines
we have good tests but not everybody who
needs testing
is tested and really would strongly
encourage people to
do that i think everyone agrees we can
get covered rates right down that should
be absolutely our aim
and to get cases of people who die and
have severe disease
as close to zero as we can
if we can go further every who would say
no
but i think if you talk to anybody who
looks at this really seriously who
understands how infectious diseases work
i don't think there's anybody who thinks
eliminating from the uk or eradicating
globally
for any long period of time is a
realistic
prospect at this point in time i i agree
i think
get numbers as low as we can don't
expect that this is going to disappear
expect that there will be recurrences of
infections particularly in winter
and this will become a circulating virus
as
as others have done over over thousands
of years and i think this is this is
unfortunately
what what we have i think the chances of
eradication true eradication ie zero
are in themselves very close to zero as
chris has said
thanks ben uh dominic yeatman metro
hi thank you prime minister when the
time comes as you put it to describe
this period to future generations
how will we explain why britain suffered
the highest death toll in europe and the
deepest recession
and secondly if i may people who own
holiday homes
overseas such as your father for
instance
will be exempted from the travel ban
affecting everyone else
would you advise people to buy a second
home abroad if they want to have a
holiday this year
and a quick one for the scientists if i
may uh
are the new variants enough to explain
why the second wave killed more people
than the first
uh dominic on your on your your overall
question about
uh you know your sort of uh league table
question i you know i think i will uh
respectfully
uh go back to the answer that you'll
have heard from this uh podium
many times which is that uh the uh
the the pandemic is uh alas
tragically is not over yet across the
world
uh we mourn the loss of every life
that's been lost
in this country and we're going to
continue to uh protect
uh everyone as to the best of the best
of our ability but you know this is this
uh is is not over and i think that
international comparisons
uh are uh are premature at this stage
and on uh on your second point
really about uh global uh
uh travel uh and uh and holidays uh a
lot of people do want to know about
um uh what's gonna happen on on the on
the holiday front
and um uh i
i i know there's a great deal of uh
curiosity and interest all i can say is
it is just too early
to say and so my advice is to everybody
to wait
uh for the global travel task force to
uh
report we've heard already that
uh there are uh other european countries
where the disease is now
rising so things certainly look
difficult uh for for the time being
uh but uh we'll be we'll be able to say
more uh we hope in a in a few days time
i said i certainly hope to be
uh saying some more by uh by april the
fifth and
and uh uh that's i think the best uh
best you can hope for there
in terms of the question you asked uh uh
us uh
uh patrick may want to add to this but
um
you know it's very difficult to be
absolutely confident exactly what
happened we're very confident that the
majority of people who died
in the second half of the second wave
which is by far the bigger one
were from the new variant so first thing
is that
has done that has completely has taken
over really in in the uk
and that is now the variant so that is
that is what has driven
uh a lot of these now working out what
would have happened had the new variant
not arrived
is really difficult to do and i think
anyone who claims that they
they they can with confidence is is
misunderstanding the problem
but uh the the height of the peak
would undoubtedly be a lot lower had
that
new much more transmissible and probably
more more fatal but that is more
questionable but the transmissibility i
don't think is questionable
uh had that not arrived i think the
pattern of the second wave in the uk
would have been very different and what
you can see when you see what's
happening in continental europe at the
moment
is the effects of the arrival of the
b117 variant
is actually causing problems in other
countries as it has caused problems
uh now i share the pm's caution about
trying to do international comparisons
although i will make a technical point
that if you're going to do it it's
probably best to concentrate on
on or excess or cause mortality just
because that's easier to
compare between countries but that's a
minor technical point the general point
is we had a bad outcome
many other countries had a bad outcome
what we want to try and do uh is to
minimise mortality in the future and
learn lessons from the past
nothing to add thank you very much uh
chris and dominic uh
emilio casaliccio from politico
thanks uh prime minister um i've got a
couple of related questions for you
and one for the scientists if that's
okay um the eu
wants us to share our order of vaccines
from a plant
in the netherlands uh called the halex
factory um and it's been making threats
to impose a ban on the jabs coming to
britain if we refuse to share
um can you answer yes or no whether
we're going to share them which
presumably would help prevent that third
wave in the eu from reaching our shores
and the bigger question is can we afford
to share them meaning
if we give however many million doses to
the eu will we still have enough to keep
our rollout on course
and the question for the scientists are
that there are fears that if the eu does
place an export ban on some vaccines to
the uk
we might retaliate and get into a kind
of trade war
um some of those fears are coming from
pfizer which is one that if we stop
sending vaccine components made in
britain to the eu
their production could grind to a halt
and presumably that could harm
our overall vaccine supplies as well so
do you worry that a tit-for-tat trade
war with the eu
could put the the uk rollout at any risk
at all
well thanks very much emilia let me go
first and say
uh that uh we're all fighting
the same pandemic across the whole of
the
european continent and indeed around uh
much of the much of the world and
uh vaccines are an international
uh operation they're produced by
collaboration between great
international
uh scientists it's a fantastic thing to
see how they've uh
been uh developed uh and will continue
to work with uh
european partners to uh to to
deliver uh the vaccine rollout uh what i
can say is
uh that we in this country uh don't
believe in uh in blockades
uh of any kind of uh of vaccines or
vaccine material uh not something that
this country would
uh dream of uh of engaging in and i'm uh
encouraged by some of the things i've
heard
uh from the continent uh in the same
sense
the only thing i say is it's a miracle
we've got vaccines it's been an
incredible
um effort by scientists from around the
world we've got
companies academic groups others who've
discovered produce vaccines right the
way around the world
and in a sense the clue to this is in
the title of the problem we've got which
is a pandemic it affects everywhere
this is something that's only going to
be sorted out when everybody is sorted
out and therefore it needs
an approach which takes an international
approach to how we
solve this problem of the of of the
virus
so i'll just i'll just add to that and
we're all basically saying the same
thing which is
uh every single one of the vaccines we
have available
depends on science from multiple
countries for its intellectual origins
for its immediate recent development and
in almost all cases for its
manufacturing distribution is absolutely
essential we see this as an
international problem
and scientists collaborate the whole
time so patrick and i talked to our
counterparts in
europe the whole time scientists up and
down the uk
all four nations of the uk are talking
to their counterparts in europe and in
every other nation
as as appropriate the whole time this
should be seen as an international issue
there's no point in one country being
immunized
on its own uh we need the whole
planet to be inoculated thank you all
very much thank you
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest
with bbc news